add validations from API to spec (#76)
ethereum/builder-specs: specs/bellatrix/builder.md

root and Builder API messages to the SSZ representations defined
[above](#containers).

> ## Registration processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Validator registration processing
```

### `process_registration`

```python
def process_registration(state: BeaconState,
                         registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1,

>                          latest_registrations: Dict[ValidatorIndex, ValidatorRegistrationV1]):

Reviewer: if we key this by public key and make the suggestion to `get_validator_with_pubkey` below we can just ignore needing to mess w/ the `index` at all

```suggestion
                         latest_registrations: Dict[BLSPublicKey, ValidatorRegistrationV1]):
```

    signature = registration.signature
    registration = registration.message

    # Verify BLS public key corresponds to a registered validator
    validator = get_validator_with_pubkey(state, registration.pubkey)

>     assert validator is not None

Reviewer: if we `assert` the validator exists in`get_validator_with_pubkey` then we don't need to do this here

Author: see comment above w.r.t. refactor

    # Verify validator registration elibility
    index, validator = validator
    assert is_eligible_for_registration(state, validator)

    # Verify registration signature
    assert verify_registration_signature(state, registration)

    # If there exists a previous registration, then verify timestamp

>     # TODO: define `MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD`

Reviewer: 10 seconds, we can define a constants table like in the consensus-specs

>     prev_registration = latest_registrations[index]

Reviewer: indexing this way will fail if the key is missing, we can use `get` instead
```suggestion
    prev_registration = latest_registrations.get(index)
```

or even just say:

```python
if index in latest_registrations:
    prev_registration = ...
```

    if prev_registration is not None:

>         assert registration.timestamp > prev_registration.timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        assert registration.timestamp >= prev_registration.timestamp
```

>         assert registration.timestamp < (compute_timestamp_at_slot(state, state.slot) + MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        assert registration.timestamp <= (compute_timestamp_at_slot(state, state.slot) + MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD)
```

Reviewer: likely worth leaving a note that implementers of this API can work w/ wall clock time so could have a cut-off for this validation that is not aligned to a slot boundary

not sure we want to open the can of worms to include some kind of "clock" type here or not...

    # Verify gas limit
    # TODO: define `MAX_GAS_LIMIT` (?)

>     assert registration.gas_limit > 0 and registration.gas_limit < MAX_GAS_LIMIT

Reviewer: I think we can skip this -- I don't think we need to be prescriptive about the gas limit beyond it being a `uint64`

    # Cache registration

>     latest_registrations[index] = registration

Reviewer: no need to cache this -- each fn should be pure wrt inputs

```

> ### `get_validator_with_pubkey`

Reviewer: style: put "helpers" ahead of "core" logic, so here, `get_validator_with_pubkey` above `process_registration`

Reviewer: same w/ other helpers below

```python
def get_validator_with_pubkey(state: BeaconState, pubkey: BLSPubkey) -> Optional[Tuple[ValidatorIndex, Validator]]:
    """
    Look up validator for ``pubkey``
    """

>     validator_pubkeys = [v.pubkey for v in state.validators]
>     if pubkey not in validator_pubkeys:
>         return None

Reviewer: this is acceptable and I think a little more in line w/ the specs:

```suggestion
    validator_pubkeys = [v.pubkey for v in state.validators]
    assert pubkey in validator_pubkeys
```

Author: I ended up removing the helper method entirely, adopting the suggested pattern in `process_registration`

    index = ValidatorIndex(validator_pubkeys.index(pubkey))
    validator = state.validators[index]

>     return index, validator

Reviewer: then just return the `validator`

```

### `is_eligible_for_registration`

```python

> def is_eligible_for_registration(state: BeaconState, validator: Validator) -> bool:

Reviewer: I interpret this condition as allowing any validator who is `active` or `pending` according to this document: https://hackmd.io/ofFJ5gOmQpu1jjHilHbdQQ

we should make a pass on aligning conditions before merging this in

Reviewer 2: the relays accept registrations for active and pending validators

Author: the functions `is_eligible_for_activation` and `is_eligible_for_activation_queue` do not define the same "pending" criteria as the linked HackMD document. I'll modify the function to use the criteria defined there.

    """
    Check if ``validator`` is not slashed and is either active or pending
    """

    if validator.slashed:

>         return False

Reviewer: was this specified somewhere or is it being added here?

Author: this was added, but I removed to remain consistent with existing "spec"

    epoch = get_current_epoch(state)
    return is_active_validator(validator, epoch) or is_eligible_for_activation(state, validator) or is_eligible_for_activation_queue(validator)
```

### `verify_registration_signature`

```python
def verify_registration_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1):
    pubkey = signed_registration.message.pubkey
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_registration.message, get_domain(state, DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER))
    return bls.Verify(pubkey, signing_root, signed_registration.signature)
```

> ## Constructing the `ExecutionPayloadHeader`

Reviewer: the builder should only be concerned w/ the context of `(slot, parent_hash, pubkey)`

> ## Constructing the `ExecutionPayloadHeader`

Reviewer: there's one step here "constructing the header", which I like that you broke out into its own thing, and another step which is "verifying the request to get the best bid/header"

let's keep each section separate

Given the `slot`, `parent_hash`, and `pubkey`, the builder MUST return the header of the valid execution payload that is able to pay the `fee_recipient` for the registered `pubkey` the most.
If the builder has not processed a previous validator registration for `pubkey`, then the builder MUST return (the appropriate error code).
If the validator registered for `pubkey` is not the proposer for `slot`, then the builder MUST return (the appropriate error code).
If `parent_hash` does not correspond to the head block hash according to the fork choice of the builder, then the builder MUST return (the appropriate error code).
If possible under the rules of consensus, the builder MUST return an execution payload header whose `gas_limit` is equal to the `gas_limit` of the latest registration for `pubkey`.

> Otherwise, the builder MUST return an execution payload header with `gas_limit` as close as possible to the desired value under the rules of consensus.

Author: there is probably a more precise way to say this

## Blinded block processing

### `process_blinded_beacon_block`

```python
def process_blinded_beacon_block(state: BeaconState,
                                 block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock,

>                                  bids: Dict[Slot, Set[BuilderBid],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                 bids: Dict[Slot, Set[BuilderBid]],
```

                                 blocks: Dict[Slot, SignedBlindedBeaconBlock]):
    # Verify block signature

>     assert verify_blinded_block_signature(state, block)

Reviewer: generally we want to put "heavy" checks after "light" checks so if there is some simple error we can bail before a node is pulled into doing a lot of work that would ultimately be unnecessary

signature verification will be one of the heavier things here so we should keep it near the end

>     # TODO: Verify slot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert block.message.slot == state.slot
```

should work

    block = block.message

    # Verify a previous block has not been submitted for the same slot

>     assert blocks[block.slot] is None

Reviewer: what's wrong w/ this?

Author: if a previous, distinct `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock` was submitted for the same slot, then the validator is immediately slashable

    # Verify the execution payload header corresponds to a previous bid
    bid_headers = [b.header for b in bids[block.slot]]
    assert block.body.execution_payload_header in bid_headers

    # TODO: Verify the remainder of the block

    # Cache the block

>     blocks[block.slot] = block

Reviewer: can drop this

root and Builder API messages to the SSZ representations defined
[above](#containers).

## Validator registration processing

Validators must submit registrations before they can work with builders.

To assist in registration processing, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`get_current_epoch`][get-current-epoch]
* [`is_active_validator`][is-active-validator]

### `is_pending_validator`

```python
def is_pending_validator(validator: Validator, epoch: Epoch) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is pending in ``epoch``.
    """
    return validator.activation_epoch > epoch
```

### `is_eligible_for_registration`

```python
def is_eligible_for_registration(state: BeaconState, validator: Validator) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is active or pending.
    """
    epoch = get_current_epoch(state)
    return is_active_validator(validator, epoch) or is_pending_validator(validator, epoch)
```

### `verify_registration_signature`

```python

> def verify_registration_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def verify_registration_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1) -> bool:
```

```python
def get_bid_signature(state: BeaconState, bid: BuilderBid, privkey: int) -> BLSSignature:
    domain = compute_domain(DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(bid, domain)
    return bls.Sign(privkey, signing_root)
```

### Revealing the `ExecutionPayload`

#### Blinded block processing

To assist in blinded block processing, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`get_beacon_proposer_index`][get-beacon-proposer-index]
* [`get_current_epoch`][get-current-epoch]
* [`compute_epoch_at_slot`][compute-epoch-at-slot]
* [`get_domain`][get-domain]

A proposer selects a bid by constructing a valid `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.
The proposer MUST accept at most one bid for a given `slot`.
Otherwise, the builder can produce a [`ProposerSlashing`][proposer-slashing].

The builder must ensure the `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock` is valid according to the rules of consensus and also that the signature is correct for the expected proposer using `verify_blinded_block_signature`:

##### `verify_blinded_block_signature`

```python

> def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock) -> bool:
```

### `is_pending_validator`

```python
def is_pending_validator(validator: Validator, epoch: Epoch) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is pending in ``epoch``.
    """
    return validator.activation_epoch > epoch
```

### `is_eligible_for_registration`

```python
def is_eligible_for_registration(state: BeaconState, validator: Validator) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is active or pending.
    """
    epoch = get_current_epoch(state)
    return is_active_validator(validator, epoch) or is_pending_validator(validator, epoch)
```

### `verify_registration_signature`

```python
def verify_registration_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1):
    pubkey = signed_registration.message.pubkey
    domain = compute_domain(DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_registration.message, domain)
    return bls.Verify(pubkey, signing_root, signed_registration.signature)
```

### `process_registration`

```python
def process_registration(state: BeaconState,
                         registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1,

>                          registrations: Dict[BLSPubkey, ValidatorRegistrationV1]):
>     signature = registration.signature
>     registration = registration.message
> 
>     # Verify BLS public key corresponds to a registered validator
>     validator_pubkeys = [v.pubkey for v in state.validators]
>     assert pubkey in validator_pubkeys
> 
>     index = ValidatorIndex(validator_pubkeys.index(pubkey))
>     validator = state.validators[index]
> 
>     # Verify validator registration elibility
>     assert is_eligible_for_registration(state, validator)
> 
>     # If there exists a previous registration, then verify timestamp
>     if registration.pubkey in registrations:
>         prev_registration = registrations[registration.pubkey]
>         assert registration.timestamp >= prev_registration.timestamp
>         assert registration.timestamp <= (compute_timestamp_at_slot(state, state.slot) + MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD)

Reviewer: a bit non-canonical but it will side-step this timing issue for now:

```suggestion
                         registrations: Dict[BLSPubkey, ValidatorRegistrationV1],
                         current_timestamp: int):
    signature = registration.signature
    registration = registration.message

    # Verify BLS public key corresponds to a registered validator
    validator_pubkeys = [v.pubkey for v in state.validators]
    assert pubkey in validator_pubkeys

    index = ValidatorIndex(validator_pubkeys.index(pubkey))
    validator = state.validators[index]

    # Verify validator registration elibility
    assert is_eligible_for_registration(state, validator)

    # If there exists a previous registration, then verify timestamp
    if registration.pubkey in registrations:
        prev_registration = registrations[registration.pubkey]
        assert registration.timestamp >= prev_registration.timestamp
        assert registration.timestamp <= current_timestamp + MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD
```

Author: I also realized that the check on the timestamp not being too far in the future should occur whether or not there is a previous registration, so I will fix that

    domain = compute_domain(DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(bid, domain)
    return bls.Sign(privkey, signing_root)
```

### Revealing the `ExecutionPayload`

#### Blinded block processing

To assist in blinded block processing, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`compute_epoch_at_slot`][compute-epoch-at-slot]
* [`get_domain`][get-domain]

A proposer accepts a bid with a `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.
The proposer MUST accept at most one bid for a given `slot`.
Otherwise, the builder can produce a [`ProposerSlashing`][proposer-slashing].

##### `verify_blinded_block_signature`

```python
def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock):
    proposer = state.validators[signed_block.message.proposer_index]
    epoch = compute_epoch_at_slot(signed_block.message.slot)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_block.message, get_domain(state, DOMAIN_BEACON_PROPOSER, epoch))
    return bls.Verify(proposer.pubkey, signing_root, signed_block.signature)
```

##### `process_blinded_beacon_block`

```python

> def process_blinded_beacon_block(state: BeaconState,

Reviewer: I think this fn is the weakest one here, if you are called to it you could add a comment that this is WIP

root and Builder API messages to the SSZ representations defined
[above](#containers).

## Validator registration processing

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validators must send registrations before they can work with builders.
```

To assist in registration processing, we use a function from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]: [`is_active_validator`][is-active-validator].

### `is_pending_validator`

```python
def is_pending_validator(validator: Validator, epoch: Epoch) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is pending in ``epoch``.
    """

>     return validator.activation_epoch > epoch

Reviewer: this will always be true?

if anything the check here seems to be "is this validator in the state"

Reviewer: we check for membership below, so instead of checking for "is pending" I think we want to check they aren't exited (which also covers withdrawable)

Author: so this was added in based on your [previous comment](https://github.com/ethereum/builder-specs/pull/76#discussion_r1178448468). are you saying that we should only bother checking whether the validator is active? if that's incorrect, can you elaborate? thanks.

Reviewer: the way this is defined `validator.activation_epoch > epoch` will just always be true as long as the validator is in the state (there should be no way to make a validator object where this is not true)

so it is kind of redundant if we do the membership check

that being said, it may be a bit more flexible if we do explicitly check and just leave this in

I would imagine the relays are just checking what ever status comes back from the API so to make it map more directly I'd favor just leaving this in for now

```

### `is_eligible_for_registration`

```python
def is_eligible_for_registration(state: BeaconState, validator: Validator) -> bool:
    """
    Check if ``validator`` is active or pending.
    """
    epoch = get_current_epoch(state)
    return is_active_validator(validator, epoch) or is_pending_validator(validator, epoch)
```

### `verify_registration_signature`

```python
def verify_registration_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1):
    pubkey = signed_registration.message.pubkey
    domain = compute_domain(DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_registration.message, domain)
    return bls.Verify(pubkey, signing_root, signed_registration.signature)
```

> ### `process_registration`

Reviewer: I would add some language to tie the API docs to these docs

Even just adding a line here like:

`A `registration` is considered valid if the following function completes without raising any assertions:`

and similarly for the other endpoints getHeader and getPayload

open to whatever verbiage as long as the linkage is clear

the most we have in the API docs under this change is if something is "valid"

                         registration: SignedValidatorRegistrationV1,
                         registrations: Dict[BLSPubkey, ValidatorRegistrationV1],
                         current_timestamp: uint64):
    signature = registration.signature
    registration = registration.message

    # Verify BLS public key corresponds to a registered validator
    validator_pubkeys = [v.pubkey for v in state.validators]
    assert pubkey in validator_pubkeys

    index = ValidatorIndex(validator_pubkeys.index(pubkey))
    validator = state.validators[index]

    # Verify validator registration elibility
    assert is_eligible_for_registration(state, validator)

    # Verify timestamp is not too far in the future
    assert registration.timestamp <= current_timestamp + MAX_REGISTRATION_LOOKAHEAD

    # Verify timestamp is not less than the timestamp of the previous registration (if it exists)
    if registration.pubkey in registrations:
        prev_registration = registrations[registration.pubkey]
        assert registration.timestamp >= prev_registration.timestamp

    # Verify registration signature
    assert verify_registration_signature(state, registration)
```

## Building

> The builder builds execution payloads for registered validators.
> The builder submits a `SignedBuilderBid` that commits to the header of an execution payload.
> The builder only reveals the full execution payload once the validator accepts the bid.
> The validator accepts a bid and commits to a specific `ExecutionPayload` with a `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The builder builds execution payloads for registered validators and submits them to an auction that happens each slot.
When a validator goes to propose, they select the winning `SignedBuilderBid` offered in that slot
by constructing a `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.
The builder only reveals the full execution payload once they receive a valid `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.
```

### Bidding

To assist in bidding, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`get_beacon_proposer_index`][get-beacon-proposer-index]
* [`hash_tree_root`][hash-tree-root]

> Execution payloads are built for a specific `slot`, `parent_hash`, and `pubkey` tuple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execution payloads are built for a specific `slot`, `parent_hash`, and `pubkey` tuple corresponding to a unique beacon block serving as the parent.
```

> The builder validates the tuple according to `is_eligible_for_bid(state, registrations, slot, parent_hash, pubkey)` where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The builder validates requests for bids according to `is_eligible_for_bid(state, registrations, slot, parent_hash, pubkey)` where:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `state` is the builder's consensus state transitioned to `slot`, including the application of any blocks before `slot`.
```

> * `registrations` is the registry of validators [successfully registered](#process-registration) with the builder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `registrations` is the registry of validators [successfully registered](#process-registration) with the builder.
```

```python
def is_eligible_for_bid(state: BeaconState,
                        registrations: Dict[BLSPubkey, ValidatorRegistrationV1],
                        slot: Slot,
                        parent_hash: Hash32,

>                         pubkey: BLSPubkey) -> bool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        pubkey: BLSPubkey):
```

    # Verify slot

>     if slot != state.slot:
>         return False

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert slot == state.slot
```

Author: since `is_eligible_for_bid` is a predicate, I was following the apparent convention in the consensus specs where, for example, [`is_eligible_for_activation`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/f1aabcd718eba26f83210b2545c9bfaa6531ea15/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#is_eligible_for_activation) returns a boolean instead of executing asserts. I don't have a strong preference here, but is there a reason to deviate from the consensus specs?

Reviewer: how I read this is that `is_eligible_for_bid` is analogous to a top-level fn from the CL specs like `process_bid_request` where we do use the `assert` infra to signal an error (things like `is_eligible_for_activation` are "helpers" and in a sense subsidiary where we see the bool return value)

that being said I don't think it is super material here so you can do either one :)

Author: okay cool. I will keep things as are for now, and we can reorganize later if desired

    # Verify BLS public key corresponds to a registered validator

>     if pubkey not in registrations:
>         return False

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert pubkey in registrations
```

    # Verify BLS public key corresponds to the proposer for the slot
    proposer_index = get_beacon_proposer_index(state)

>     if pubkey != state.validators[proposer_index].pubkey:
>         return False

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    proposer_pubkey = state.validators[proposer_index].pubkey
    assert pubkey == proposer_pubkey
```

    # Verify parent hash

>     return parent_hash == state.latest_execution_payload_header.block_hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert parent_hash == state.latest_execution_payload_header.block_hash
```

```

#### Constructing the `ExecutionPayloadHeader`

> Suppose the builder is bidding for `slot`, `parent_hash`, and `pubkey`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The builder MUST submit a bid for the valid execution payload that is able to pay the `fee_recipient` for the registered `pubkey` the most.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The builder MUST provide a bid for the valid execution payload that is able to pay the `fee_recipient` in the validator registration for the registered `pubkey` the most.
```

> If possible under the rules of consensus, the builder MUST build an execution payload whose `gas_limit` is equal to the `gas_limit` of the latest registration for `pubkey`.
> Otherwise, the builder MUST build an execution payload with `gas_limit` as close as possible to the desired value under the rules of consensus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The builder MUST build an execution payload whose `gas_limit` is equal to the `gas_limit` of the latest registration for `pubkey`, or as close as is possible under the consensus rules.
```

        block_number=payload.block_number,
        gas_limit=payload.gas_limit,
        gas_used=payload.gas_used,
        timestamp=payload.timestamp,
        extra_data=payload.extra_data,
        base_fee_per_gas=payload.base_fee_per_gas,
        block_hash=payload.block_hash,
        transactions_root=hash_tree_root(payload.transactions),
    )
    return BuilderBid(header=header, value=value, pubkey=pubkey)
```

#### Packaging into a `SignedBuilderBid`

The builder packages `bid` into a `SignedBuilderBid`, denoted `signed_bid`, with `signed_bid=SignedBuilderBid(bid=bid, signature=signature)` where `signature` is obtained from:

```python
def get_bid_signature(state: BeaconState, bid: BuilderBid, privkey: int) -> BLSSignature:
    domain = compute_domain(DOMAIN_APPLICATION_BUILDER)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(bid, domain)
    return bls.Sign(privkey, signing_root)
```

### Revealing the `ExecutionPayload`

#### Blinded block processing

To assist in blinded block processing, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`compute_epoch_at_slot`][compute-epoch-at-slot]
* [`get_domain`][get-domain]

> A proposer accepts a bid with a `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proposer accepts a bid with a valid `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock`.
```

The proposer MUST accept at most one bid for a given `slot`.
Otherwise, the builder can produce a [`ProposerSlashing`][proposer-slashing].

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The builder must ensure the `SignedBlindedBeaconBlock` is valid according to the rules of consensus and also that the signature is correct for the expected proposer using `verify_blinded_block_signature`:

```

##### `verify_blinded_block_signature`

```python
def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock):
    proposer = state.validators[signed_block.message.proposer_index]
    epoch = compute_epoch_at_slot(signed_block.message.slot)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_block.message, get_domain(state, DOMAIN_BEACON_PROPOSER, epoch))

>     return bls.Verify(proposer.pubkey, signing_root, signed_block.signature)

Reviewer: I would actually get `proposer` from the `state` a la `get_beacon_proposer`

otherwise the spec would allow for the "honest behavior" where I get some kind of unbundling attack going on by sending a valid "sibling" block and capturing the mev into the canonical chain block

Reviewer: prolly ditto on `epoch` just getting the current epoch

Author: good look!

```

> ##### `process_blinded_beacon_block`
> 
> ```python
> def process_blinded_beacon_block(state: BeaconState,
>                                  block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock,
>                                  bids: Dict[Slot, Set[ExecutionPayloadHeader]],
>                                  blocks: Dict[Slot, BlindedBeaconBlock]):
>     # NOTE: this function is a work in progress
> 
>     block = block.message
> 
>     # Verify a previous, distinct block has not been submitted for the same slot
>     assert block.slot not in blocks or blocks[block.slot] == block
> 
>     # Verify the execution payload header corresponds to a previous bid
>     assert block.slot in bids
>     assert block.body.execution_payload_header in bids[slot]
> 
>     # Verify block signature
>     assert verify_blinded_block_signature(state, block)
> ```
> 

Reviewer: let's just drop for now

```suggestion
```

If possible under the rules of consensus, the builder MUST return an execution payload header whose `gas_limit` is equal to the `gas_limit` of the latest registration for `pubkey`.
Otherwise, the builder MUST return an execution payload header with `gas_limit` as close as possible to the desired value under the rules of consensus.

## Blinded block processing

### `verify_blinded_block_signature`

```python
def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock):
    proposer = state.validators[signed_block.message.proposer_index]
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_block.message, get_domain(state, DOMAIN_BEACON_PROPOSER))
    return bls.Verify(proposer.pubkey, signing_root, signed_block.signature)
```

### `process_blinded_beacon_block`

```python
def process_blinded_beacon_block(state: BeaconState,
                                 block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock,
                                 bids: Dict[Slot, Set[BuilderBid]],
                                 blocks: Dict[Slot, SignedBlindedBeaconBlock]):

>     block = block.message

Reviewer 2: what's the goal of these tests here?

there's a ton of important checks in this call, maybe take a look at the relay implementation: https://github.com/flashbots/mev-boost-relay/blob/171c1aa8cf2d2252d3d7a7cf5aa378fdddf8bcfc/services/api/service.go#L999

    signing_root = compute_signing_root(bid, domain)
    return bls.Sign(privkey, signing_root)
```

### Revealing the `ExecutionPayload`

#### Blinded block processing

To assist in blinded block processing, we use the following functions from the [consensus specs][consensus-specs]:

* [`compute_epoch_at_slot`][compute-epoch-at-slot]
* [`get_domain`][get-domain]

##### `verify_blinded_block_signature`

```python
def verify_blinded_block_signature(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock):
    proposer = state.validators[signed_block.message.proposer_index]
    epoch = compute_epoch_at_slot(signed_block.message.slot)
    signing_root = compute_signing_root(signed_block.message, get_domain(state, DOMAIN_BEACON_PROPOSER, epoch))
    return bls.Verify(proposer.pubkey, signing_root, signed_block.signature)
```

##### `process_blinded_beacon_block`

```python
def process_blinded_beacon_block(state: BeaconState,
                                 block: SignedBlindedBeaconBlock,
                                 bids: Dict[Slot, Set[ExecutionPayloadHeader]],
                                 blocks: Dict[Slot, BlindedBeaconBlock]):
    block = block.message

>     # Verify a previous, distinct block has not been submitted for the same slot

Author: call out the slashing somewhere above
